# Handbook for Active IPv6 Scanning Project

## Paper Reading
First, you need to read the paper ["Clusters in the Expanse: Understanding and Unbiasing IPv6 Hitlists"](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3278532.3278564) so that you can understand the entire work. 

Next, you can choose one of these three representative works to read: ["Target generation for internet-wide IPv6 scanning"](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3131365.3131405), ["6Tree: Efficient dynamic discovery of active addresses in the IPv6 address space"](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1389128618312003) and ["Entropy/IP: Uncovering Structure in IPv6 Addresses"](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/2987443.2987445).

## Experiments
Your goal is to detect active IPv6 addresses in the Internet, which are addresses that can communicate using any network protocol. In IPv4, there are very mature tools ([ZMap](https://github.com/zmap/zmap)) that can accomplish this task, because the IPv4 address space is very limited and it is easy to use traversal methods for detection. However, the IPv6 address space is too large, with 2 to the power of 128 addresses, so traversal is not feasible. To address the problem of detecting active IPv6 addresses, recent research has formed four steps:

1. Obtaining IPv6 Hitlists: IPv6 Hitlists are addresses that have been active at some point during a certain period of time on the Internet, which can be used as seed addresses to discover more addresses.

2. Aliased prefix detection: An aliased prefix is a prefix that belongs entirely to a single endpoint, which needs to be excluded before detection.

3. Address generation model: Using the IPv6 Hitlists with aliased prefixes removed as seed addresses, an address generation model is used to discover patterns and generate new addresses.

4. Detector: Using a detector to check whether the addresses generated by the address generation model are active.

Firstly, you don't need to reproduce the method of building IPv6 Hitlists. You can directly use [this link](https://ruifeng-li-at-tsinghua-edu-cn:9402106ffd3e@alcatraz.net.in.tum.de/ipv6-hitlist-service/registered/) to access the latest IPv6 Hitlists maintained by the Gasser team.

Secondly, you need to reproduce the method of aliased prefix detection described in the "Clusters in the Expanse" paper, and use the detection results to filter the IPv6 Hitlists.

Thirdly, you need to use the methods described in one of the three papers mentioned above to generate new IPv6 addresses. You can use publicly available code or replicate the methods on your own. Of course, if you can come up with your own address generation model, you can use your own model to complete this step👍.

Finally, you need to scan the new IPv6 addresses that you have generated, and we recommend using [ZMapv6](https://github.com/tumi8/zmap) for this purpose. If it doesn't meet your scanning needs, you can also implement your own scanning tool.

## Requirement
As the basis for your final grade, you will need to make a final presentation and submit the relevant code and data. The specific details can be obtained by consulting the teaching assistants. I hope you will gain something valuable from the FIA class😊.
